It's time for another Conceptual Aside.
Types and JavaScript.
Javascript is special, different
than what you might be used to if you're
coming from another programming language.
When it comes to the types
of data that variables hold.
And how JavaScript deals with them.
So before we start with
that Big Word Alert.
I'm going to discuss a term that describes
how JavaScript deals with types.
It's called Dynamic Typing.
That means that you don't
tell the JavaScript engine
what type of data a variable holds.
You don't put that into
the code that you're writing.
Instead, the engine figures it
out while your code is running,
while it's executing.
And so a single variable can, at different
times during the execution of your code.
Hold different types of values, because
it's all figured out during execution.
All right, for example,
when you're dealing with other programming
languages like Java or C#,
they use something called Static Typing.
That means you tell the engine
ahead of time, the compiler,
ahead of time what kind of data you
intend to hold inside a variable.
So you might have
a keyword like bool to say
this variable should hold a Boolean value,
either true or false.
And then if you try to put a value that is
other than a Boolean into that variable,
you get an error.
But JavaScript isn't like that.
JavaScript is dynamically typed.
Meaning that there is no
keyword to tell the engine what
kind of data you intend to
put inside the variable.
We just say var, for example, and
then while the code is running,
the JavaScript engine will determine
what type you're giving that variable.
And you could change it.
I could put those three lines in order,
make it true.
And at that moment the engine will say,
you must mean this to be a Boolean type,
and I can give it a string yep,
and it'll say yep you must
have intended a string type.
And I could give it 1
not inside quotes and
it will say,
this is supposed to be a numeric type.
So JavaScript is dynamically typed,
it figures it out on the fly.
This turns out to be quite powerful, and
can also cause you some problems if
you don't understand how JavaScript
is going to make decisions as
a result of dynamic typing.